---
title: "CacheForNVD"
subtitle: "Project #2"
author: "ray@AppropriateSolutions.com"
type: ""
date: 2023-08-09T01:00:00-05:00
image: ""
tags: [LearningElixir, Elixir, CacheForNVD]
#LearningElixir #Elixir #CacheForNVD
---

Been thinking about a second project before I need to head back to Python report-building land.

I recently wrote a Python-based vulnerability reporting application that cached API lookups from the NIST [NVD](https://nvd.nist.gov/) service.

## API Constraints

The most severe NVD API constraint is the rate limiting:

- 5 lookups per 30 seconds without an API key.
- 50 lookups per 30 seconds with an API key.

I've also seen API requests take over 30 seconds to respond.

A typical report requires hundreds of CVE lookups which makes caching mandatory.

<!--more-->

## Web Service

A locally-run caching web service seems a reasonable approach.
It provides a language-neutral, centralized cache.

## Initial Design Thoughts

- Single CVE lookup using the same URL path as the NVD API.
  - `https://services.nvd.nist.gov/rest/json/cves/2.0?cveId={cve_id}`
- Rate limit for with and without an [API key](https://nvd.nist.gov/general/news/API-Key-Announcement).
- Implement in Elixir.
- Write a Bandit plug.
- Use the [req](https://github.com/wojtekmach/req) HTTP client.
- Store data in Mnesia.

### Why Elixir?

- I'm looking for a second Elixir project in order to learn the language.
- With an Elixir app you can either embed the server in your own application or run it standalone.
- Elixir is fun!

### Why Bandit vs. Phoenix?

- An opportunity to get a bit further "under the hood".
- The web service is designed for internal usage so many of the Phoenix bells and whistles are less important.

### Why req?

- [req](https://andrealeopardi.com/posts/breakdown-of-http-clients-in-elixir/#req) appears to be a popular modern http client.
- Very simple HTTP client requirements, so simple is best.

### Why Mnesia?

- Need (slightly) more than a simple key/value store.
- PostgreSQL (my favorite database) is overkill.
- SQLite3 is always fun to use, but I keep running into the issue of being unable to dynamically update the schema.
- Mnesia will let me learn about distributed databases.
- Mnesia lets a standalone implementation share the cache with an embedded server.

## Possible Future Features

- Implement batch updates.

## Terms

- CVE: Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures
- NIST: National Institute of Standards and Technology
- NVD: National Vulnerability Database

